Understanding the working of the Internet/Web Applications: The basic route of a SDET Learning Path proceeds with individuals having minimal understanding of how web browsers, applications and the Internet work. This would include having some knowledge of Hosting, Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC), Domain Name System (DNS), Application Programming Interface (API), server/client architecture, the OSI model and others, and the way they are a part of the whole software architecture.
Knowledge of HTML and CSS: CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) and HTML (Hyper-Text Markup Language) are considered to be fundamental units of web applications. The elements on a webpage are defined through HTML, while the feel and look of a webpage is constructed through CSS. The skills of an Automation Tester also include possessing a basic understanding of the properties and attributes of HTML and CSS.
Knowledge of a Programming Language: In understanding how to become a SDET, it is important to note that mastering a programming language helps in mastering one of the core prerequisites to become a SDET and that being the ability to develop websites or product applications. As an individual, you can begin with one programming language which can be used for Automation as well. You should master it in terms of its basics as well as its advanced features, before you wish to move on to another language.
Knowledge of Automation Tools: There are a number of Test Automation Tools available; however, as an effective SDET it would be important for you to choose the right tool for the right situation. This means that in performance of a SDET’s Roles and Responsibilities, you will be continuously required to learn tools for Automation Testing  such as Selenium, Watir, Lambda Test and so on.
Learning SQL: A SDET’s Roles and Responsibilities entail direct handling of data. These data can be acquired from different sources and SDETs are required to interact and comprehend them. These data may be present in the form of relational databases (SQL) or non-relational databases (NoSQL). Thus, learning SQL helps SDETs in resolving many of the issues which might be associated with data management.
Knowledge of the Version Control System: Source Control Systems or Version Control Systems are simply software tools which help the software team to manage and supervise changes to source code. As an Automation Tester, you will be required to write, review, modify and manage a lot of source code. The Source Control System helps you and your team members to collaborate and work faster.
Agile and DevOps Process Management Methodology: The Agile and DevOps Methodology have been accepted as essential approaches to the development of software with greater efficiency and in less time. While the purpose of Agile is to derive quick responses from the team on the feedback received through periodic assessments in sprints; the purpose of DevOps is to forge a close link between IT operations and the development team. When you try to understand the prerequisites to become a SDET, you should know that you will be required to develop these essential methodology skills.  
